Words of an Immortal Siddha: A Brief Daily Sādhana of Amitāyus and Hayagrīva Combined from the Short Lineage Revelations Namo gurubhyaḥ. This text is a short daily sādhana presenting the meditation and mantra recitation for The Practice That Grants the Glory of Immortality, a cycle of practice combining Amitāyus and Hayagrīva revealed through the short lineage. From now until enlightenment, I and all sentient beings Take refuge in the three roots and the deities of longevity. I generate the pure motivation of bodhicitta, wishing to accomplish the level of an immortal vidyādhara for others, To lead them to complete buddhahood. Repeat three times. OṂ SVABHĀVA ŚUDDHĀḤ SARVADHARMĀḤ SVABHĀVA SHUDDHO 'HAṂ In the state of emptiness, without reference to place, cosmos, or sentient beings, The outer universe arises as the Great Bliss Lotus Array buddha field. In its center, on a precious throne supported by peacocks, On a multicolored lotus and a moon disc, my mind sits in the form of the syllable HRĪḤ, Which transforms into the protector Amitāyus-my form- Bright red with one face; my two hands are in the mudrā of equipoise And hold a long-life vase filled with the nectar of immortality. I sit cross-legged, wearing all the silk and jewel ornaments. On a moon disc at my heart stands a red syllable HRĪḤ, The five light bindus that support life at its center. Above the crown of my head, The root and lineage gurus sit in tiers, Each in the form of the Bhagavān, the protector Amitāyus. Rays of light emanate from their hearts, inviting the wisdom deities, who dissolve and merge indivisibly with them, And they transform into embodiments of all sources of refuge. JAḤ HŪṂ BAṂ HOḤ Join your palms together and say: OṂ ĀḤ HŪṂ HRĪḤ HRĪḤ Amitābha, take all beings under your protection! Protector Amitāyus, give them immortality! Powerful King Hayagrīva, clear their obstacles! Padmākara, protect beings of these degenerate times! Tangtong Gyalpo, our prayers to you are never in vain- We pray to you all! Eliminate all adverse circumstances and obstacles! Bless us and grant us the siddhi of immortality. OṂ ĀḤ HŪṂ HRĪḤ HRĪḤ VAJRA GURU PADMA SIDDHI PUNYE JÑĀNA ĀYUR SIDDHI JAḤ Rays of light from the hearts of the root and lineage gurus Restore the ruptures, decline, and scattering of my la vitality and life, And gather the quintessence of all life forces throughout saṃsāra and nirvāṇa into the vases. Nectar overflows from the vases and enters through the Brahma aperture at the top of my head, Filling my body completely; the continuous flow of elixir removes all illness, harmful influences, negativity, and obscurations, And I obtain the siddhi of immortal life. Recite this prayer as many times as you can, and always actualize its meaning. Alternate between accumulating the mantra and saying the prayer. At the end of the session, conclude by saying: Root and lineage gurus, peaceful and wrathful yidam deities, Summon the blessings of power and ability, Pacify adverse circumstances, illness, harmful influences, negativity, and obscurations, And grant us the longevity and wisdom of the siddhi of immortality! As I pray to the root and lineage gurus, The nectar of immortality courses through my body, Dissolves into light, and merges with the bindu at the center of my heart; I obtain the longevity and wisdom siddhis. Imagine that the three syllables mark your three centers as you say: OṂ ĀḤ HŪṂ Through this merit, may I and all sentient beings enjoy longevity and good health. May we practice the Dharma in this life, Be reborn in Sukhāvatī in the next, And may we swiftly attain the level of the protector Amitāyus. Please grant us the enjoyment of a glorious immortal life, Intelligence, and wisdom; And may we spontaneously acquire All the wealth of saṃsāra and nirvāṇa. May all be auspicious for teachers and students to never separate, And for their bodies to remain unchanging, sturdy, and strong. May they always drink excellent tea, eat good food, and be happy, And may the Dharma never cease to flourish. Say these prayers of dedication, aspiration, and auspiciousness before returning to your daily activities. If you want to do a retreat, you can practice elaborately or simply. To practice elaborately, arrange the various practice articles in front of you as for the long-life empowerment-for example, a statue or painting as the support for your front-visualization, offering tormas, and so on. Divide the day into four sessions. As you visualize the indivisible self- and front-visualizations, recite the mantra of approach 1,000,000 or 400,000 times, plus the extra mantras that make up for shortcomings in the practice. At the end of your practice, receive the siddhis in the same way as you do for the self-empowerment. To practice simply, complete the accumulation of mantra focusing solely on the self-visualization. Jamyang Khyentse Wangpo, a monk on the path of vidyādharas, wrote this sādhana based on the old original text and remained faithful to its wisdom intent. It was written at the "sleeping cave" on glorious Chuwori Mountain, a sacred place blessed by the Lord of Mahāsiddhas. However slight this renewed clarification, may the merit it creates be the cause of swift attainment of the immortal wisdom kāya of all beings. Sarvadā kalyāṇaṃ bhavatu. 
